CPE 100 Introduction to Computer Programming
Sections C and D August 2015
Laboratory Exercise 8

Objective 

This lab is intended to give you practice creating a program that uses functions with array-based and pointer-based output arguments. 

Instructions 

Write a program called studentStats.c.  First the program should ask
how many quizzes there were in the course. Then the program should
loop, getting the student name and multiple quiz grades for a set of
students. It should calculate and print the average (mean) and
standard deviation of that student's quizzes, before continuing to the
next student.

The standard deviation measures how much a set of data values vary
among themselves. A larger standard deviation-often abbreviated
"SD"-means that there's more variability in the data values. You can
find the formula for SD below.

Put the code to get the quiz grades in a function called
getQuizGrades.  This function should have three arguments: a string
(input argument holding the student's name), an array of integers
(output argument for storing the quizzes) and a count (input argument
holding number of quizzes, which will be less than or equal to 10 and
the same for every student). This function should be a void function
(no return value).

Put the code to calculate the mean and standard deviation for one
student's grades in a function called calculateStats.  This function
should have three arguments: the array of grades (an input argument),
the count (an input argument), and a pointer to a double (an output
argument), where you will return the standard deviation. You should
return the average as the function value.

Here is a sample run of this program.

How many quizzes in the course? 4
Enter name of student 1: John
	Quiz grade 1 for John:  10
	Quiz grade 2 for John:   8
       	Quiz grade 3 for John:   9
	Quiz grade 4 for John:   10

       John's average grade is 9.25
	The standard deviation is 0.9574

Enter name of student 2:  Helen
	Quiz grade 1 for Helen:   0
	Quiz grade 2 for Helen:   8
       	Quiz grade 3 for Helen:   2
	Quiz grade 4 for Helen:   10

       Helen's average grade is 5.00
	The standard deviation is 4.7609

Enter name for student 3: DONE
Goodbye!

To calculate the standard deviation, use the following formula:

The sigma character (?) means "summation". The x with a bar on the top
is the average value over N measurements (quizzes in this case).  In
words, this formula means: For each quiz, subtract the average of all
the N quizzes from this quiz score, and square the result. Add that to
a total. When you have summed up the squared differences for all quiz
scores, divide the total of the squared differences by the number of
quizzes minus 1 (N-1). Take the square root of the result.  Hints and
Recommendations

1. Start by writing the loop to get the student names. Create stubs
for the getQuizGrades() and calculateStats() functions. Compile and
test your program with the stub functions. Then implement
getQuizGrades(). Finally, write the code for calculateStats().

2. Since you only need to hold one name at a time, not all the names,
you do not need a two-dimensional array of characters. You can re-use
the same one dimensional array (string) for the name again and again.

3. Similarly, since you will be processing each student's grades, then
moving to the next student, you only need a single dimensional array
of grades (with a dimension of 10 according to the instructions).

4. In calculateStats(), you will need to loop through the quiz grades
twice. In the first loop, you will calculate the average. In the
second, you will calculate the SD, which needs the average. (There are
ways to do this with only one loop, but I don't want to confuse you.)

5. Don't worry in this program about checking the values the user
types to make sure they are correct. Focus on the problem of writing
functions with output arguments. (Unless of course you finish early
and you are bored...!)


